So now, we've decided what
we need on the team, right?
We're pretty clear, we have some ideas,
I need to write that job description.
I got to admit,
it's not my most enjoyable thing.
I don't know why, or I don't put
a ton of time and effort in this.
And so maybe I'm trying to tell
you all to do better than me.
But I think about it as it's
just a piece of the puzzle.
I'm more leaning towards,
I want just enough information for
someone to be excited enough to be,
yeah, I fit that criteria,
I'm excited, and
then I can have a conversation with them.
I find the conversation is very much what
I wanna get to, but it is very important
to have a really good job description
that helps build up that conversation.
Let's start with the job title.
Let's have job titles that
accurately explain what the role
is as simple as possible and
avoid all the acronyms and
all the fun,
joyful things that companies have.
Netflix has tons of them, and we don't
need to necessarily say that out to you
all if you're applying,
because it doesn't make sense to you.
I also think another important one.
This is probably one of the areas where
I try to spend more of my time on,
is building a really clear,
concise job summary.
It's that TLDR.
Someone's looking to apply that hopefully
they saw the title that resonated with
them, and then there's this really
quick blurb of, what is the role?
And in the importance of it,
what's the impact that they're
gonna have on the company?
And then you wanna start to
kinda get into that like, yeah,
primary purpose of the role,
some of the objectives, then you can start
to think about highlighting those
key responsibilities for the role.
List out the main duties, tasks.
You don't need 30 tasks,
maybe it's 10, maybe 15,
it's getting up there, and
you can use action verbs.
I had never thought about this one,
but I started doing that a little
bit in some of my job descriptions.
But you can say you'll manage
the codebase for X, Y, and Z,
you'll develop tools that enable
other developers at the company.
You'll help coordinate
with your design partners.
It helps that job applicant
really understand,
just that wording can really help them
understand what they'll be doing.
And you u wanna be very specific and
avoid the vague language.
This is where being pretty clear and
concise, even bullet points are very good
just someone can really get a quick
glance of what that role is.
You wanna be clear about what's required
and what are the required qualifications?
Just be upfront.
If you need someone who knows React,
put that there.
They've had experience with it,
that's important.
But also, my last bullet point there,
be realistic on the job requirements.
I have seen this.
I have definitely seen where someone's,
it's probably was a mistake that they
didn't realize, but
you need 20 years of React experience.
I'm sorry, React is not 20 years old,
so I'm not sure how that would happen.
It's things like that.
You can turn off a candidate pretty
easily, but it's also unrealistic.
Nobody has that,
the creators of React don't have that.
And then you can also
put what's preferred and
what's required to I like to
separate those types of skills or
requirements is kind of surfacing
maybe some of those additive skills.
You have strong communication, you're
you're able to present public speak.
Maybe that's just a nice additive thing.
I can help someone be excited about that
role, but it's not a requirement and so
make that very clear and concise, Jim.
>> Got a spicy one for you, right?
Yeah.
>> What are your thoughts on putting
the salary ranges on job descriptions?
>> I like it, I think it's a nice way to,
if you have expectations on a salary,
I think that is really helpful.
You don't necessarily have to opt
though or after a phone call and
waste time in that if they're not paying.
If you're being paid top of market in your
current company, that might be something
you want to keep getting paid if
you're moving to another company.
So I think it's helpful.
I don't think it's as helpful sometimes,
now we have requirements.
I know in California,
that's one requirement that
companies are having to post that.
It doesn't give you a tonne of clarity.
I've noticed companies
are putting a really broad range.
It's not really that helpful at that time.
So I like the sentiment of it,
but it also varies, right?
I don't wanna be locked in to someone,
if I say you're gonna get paid $10
million, well, it's not gonna happen.
I wish software engineers got paid that,
that would be amazing.
But it's like you don't wanna be locked
in cuz you also might decide that you
want someone more experienced or
less experienced while you're interviewing
that might adjust, and so
you don't wanna be locked in.
It's not to say that you're wanting
to lowball someone or anything, but
it can just muddy that up a bit.
So I think setting expectations is good.
I think the whole you can get paid
$1 to a $1 million dollars is
such an extreme range.
>> Just as an anecdote,
I would also encourage folks to
take it with a grain of salt.
Because I have seen on a lot of postings
that there's a big disclaimer that said,
this is what we're targeting,
but it's based on geography and
remote preferences and
all these other factors.
And friend of mine just went through
a round of interviews and one of them,
they got to the final round of interviews
and they're like we wanna hire you.
This was after weeks of round after
round of phone calls, in-person,
video chat, and
they're getting to salary negotiations and
they're like,
we can't pay you what you're asking for.
And he's like, well, but
that's what was on the job description.
And they're like, yeah,
we posted that bit,
we don't really wanna pay people that.
It was basically their answer.
[LAUGH]
>> Okay, I feel really sorry for you.
>> So yeah, yes, take it with a grain
of salt and and ask those questions.
If it's really an important thing for
you to make your move,
then be really clear about that
upfront on the on the screening call.
>> I would say that first initial call,
some depends on the company.
It might be actually
even not even company,
sometimes I'm the first call where
I'm reaching out to someone.
That's a good conversation for
someone to just ask.
Let's get those expectations upfront,
and there again,
they may not give you a solid.
You will pay exactly this because it
depends on how the interview goes and
all those there's factors there.
But yeah, trying to get that upfront
is really just a high level.
Cuz if they're way off, you're like,
okay, that might be the end point and
that we should just end the conversation
now and you're saving yourself time and
you're saving others time, too.
Another thing that often things
is posted its base salary, right?
It's the cash, and so that's really hard.
Some companies pay all cash,
some companies pay more cash,
less cash, but there's stock options and
that can vary too.
And so
even having that conversation upfront,
you can kind of understand how
the compensation is broke down.
And then understand,
they're gonna reward me a lot of stock or
hey, they can't meet my
expectations on cash, but
they're willing to negotiate on that comp.
And sorry, on the stock options,
these things are really important
to have those early conversations.
So I'm glad you all brought that up.
All right, I think this is this is one
I feel like companies don't always do.
I've often seen where job titles, sorry,
job descriptions aren't
highlighting the company culture.
I think this is really important.
Celebrate the things that
are good about your company..
Maybe it's the benefits and things that
are available, but even just how you like
to work and what are things that
you all like to do as a team?
Maybe there's a team dynamic
that you really like,
this is a great time to kinda
celebrate and share that.
People join companies for culture, too.
They don't wanna be just joining for
the tech, or
there's a lot of factors
that go into that.
So highlighting the company culture
is a really good one to do.
If you have toxic culture,
maybe avoid putting that.
But be realistic and
say maybe in the interviews you talk
about where you're working to improve.
Being transparent is really good.
Another thing to think about is being
inclusive and then try to avoid bias.
This is hard.
I mean, I definitely made mistakes,
my God, I didn't write that well,
and there's ways that you can avoid it.
Obviously, just thinking about it
can help, but get people to review.
Lean on your team.
If you look at this job
description I wrote.
I like throwing things in a Google doc,
people can comment, make suggestions.
But yeah, you're not in this by yourself,
bring others and
leverage your recruiting partner.
I think this is really important.
There's also, I think, I call it out
later, I'm gonna call it now, too is,
there's even tools that help.
There's one that I've used called Textio,
and that's how you pronounce it.
It will work for anything, but
you can put a job description in there and
it will highlight some words that could
change to make something more inclusive.
You want to be open to
anyone being able to apply.
Yeah, so
avoid using gender specific pronouns like,
he will be a great engineer on the team or
that's why.
Just say they, or them,
or just other words.
If someone reads that,
they're gonna already feel like
it's not speaking to them.
And you'd be surprised,
it seems pretty straightforward, but
a lot of companies have done this.
Avoid mentioning age related preferences.
I don't see this one is often,
but something to think about.
Just in the example there,
we are seeking a young dynamic developer.
You don't need the young there,
maybe dynamic developer is not the great
greatest either, but
just things like that.
It's really truly thinking about
how the language is being read.
This is the one I think, go ahead.
>> Going to the young dynamic developer,
there's a lot of companies that will post
things like new grad, do you think
that kind of falls into that still?
I would call it a new grad then, right?
Be specific on that.
Maybe it's new college grad or
it's right out of school, minimal years of
experience, those types of things is
your right, that is true but young.
I mean,
you could be going second career, right?
I have an engineer on my team, actually,
a couple that have gone through.
They started out one was in sales and
is now an engineer.
I mean, they're young, but they're not.
It can speak wrong to them in that sense,
and
it can be in a little bit
exclusive in that sense.
But yeah, good call out.
I'm not a fan of any job description
that says, ninja, rockstar, guru.
It turns me off reading that.
So maybe someone gets excited on this one,
but I don't think a lot of people do.
So just avoid that.
It's not really specific either,
it's interpretive, right?
What's a ninja?
What's a rockstar?
Hard to tell, so try and
just avoid those words.
Any other words that you've seen that
would be ones that you would avoid in
a job description?
I know I've sometimes too have seen maybe
on the inclusive side of we wanna be able
to grab beers as a team and
things like that.
That's not very inclusive.
It's like, we're hiring to be buddies.
You wanna like people you work with and
enjoy working with them, but
you don't necessarily have
to grab beers with them.
Maybe they don't drink, or
maybe that's not their thing, Mark.
>> On a side note, what do you look for
in new grads or early junior devs?
>> Yeah, that's a really good question.
You want to look for, my first thing
I'm gonna highlight from earlier,
aptitude is a big one.
Absolutely want someone
who's wanting to learn,
who shows up with curiosity,
that's a big one.
You don't know everything.
There's no way.
I mean, I don't know everything and
I've been doing this for
a really long time.
Nobody does, but
especially when you're a new college grad,
there's just gonna be a ton of
things that you don't know.
But being curious and asking questions,
that really resonates with me.
Having obviously some sort of experience
doing the task at hand can help, but
you don't need years of experience.
Clearly, it's a new college grad,
I can't have that expectation.
So having those clear expectations, but
aptitude and curiosity will time and
time again.
That's not even the technical skills,
that's literally a skill that I look for.
So leverage some tools,
there are tools out there.
I'm sure there's many that I'm
not even thinking about, but
I mentioned Textio earlier that
it really just highlights and
it's helped me just flag things
that I didn't even think about.
I mean, we've got so much AI now too
like ChatGPT definitely helped make
things more concise, more clear,
word it better, leverage those tools.
Maybe you tell it to write
your whole job description.
I don't know if that's gonna be perfect,
but it's a good starting point.